# Overview
This repository contains code and data for predicting which unassessed regional
taxa are likely to face conservation threats... using occurrence data,
covariates, and a random forest classifiers.

# General organization

- *code* contains R scripts to download occurrence data and GIS layers, process them, and fit the Random Forests. 
- *data* contains all the downloaded and manufactured datasets (these are often large) for this project
    - *data/fromR* mainly contains tables generated by the scripts in *code*
    - *data/GIS_downloads* contains raster layers downloaded from various sources
    - the data files for this project are very large. As a result, this repository was created using git lfs, see note below
- *figures* contains .pdf files of maps and graphs generated by scripts in *code*
- *notes* is a place where I am recording code snippets and notes to myself, there is not analysis here

# large files and git lfs
This is the first time I'm using git lfs to handle large files in the repo. I'm
not yet sure how the files tracked by lfs are handled if you clone this repo and
have not installed git lfs. For more information on git lfs, see
[here](https://git-lfs.github.com/). 

# Notes to self
* December 14 2021 re-downloaded GIS layers... not because the data changed, but
because some statewide datasets were actually available. I ran into issues with
the macos archive utility but using `unzip` version 6.0 worked just fine.

  Seems like there are some basic issues with lining up the CC datasets and the
aryalnd LULC data, won't be easy to classify changes from these data. NLCD has
pre-existing change classes which might mean it is a good dataset for
exploration, which is what this is.

  Deleting the 2013 CC dataset. Likely to do same with LULC from state of MD

* December 15 2021: got the NLCD data up and they seem adequate for preliminary
analyses. But I don't yet know how to access a smaller dataset programatically.
It seems possible that with a few lines of code could download the entire lower
48, crop, and dispose of the original in a programmatic workflow. For now, I
just went to https://www.mrlc.gov/viewer/, used my mouse to define a bounding
box around the state of Maryland, and had them email me a .zip file. Return to
this at a later date when downstream analysis is firmer.

* January 4 2022: Using tigris county borders to define state of MD. Includes
water. Have not yet determined if there is a strong bias in terms of
conservation status of points inside and outside this boundary.
